readme.md, before:

# generate IDE projects with cmake

## usage
1. create build directory as you normally would
2. run ``query-cmake`` 
3. run cmake as you normally would
4. run ``<ide>-parse-reply``
5. from your IDE, import project from this build directory.

## whats going on here
cmake provides [cmake-file-api](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-file-api.7.html), in which cmake generates json, which then can be read to generate IDE project files.

First ``query-cmake`` creates two files in build directory, which tells cmake to generate json.  Then, after cmake is run, ``<ide>-parse-reply`` reads this json and outputs project files for that IDE.

# CMAKE project requirements
Project must have preprocessor definition of ``BOARD``specifying the hardware used.  The correct MCU part number is then found from this board name.   See [translation of board names](#trans)

# Why use IDE?
These IDEs package together compiler and debugger working together in single development environment, relieving the developer from having to individually install each of these, and then set them up.  Additionally, some IDEs are supported directly by microcontroller vendor.

## Why CMAKE for embedded projects?
Too many combinations of hardware variations: target MCU, board type, add-on board type, software options.  Results in infinite number of projects.  Instead, just let cmake create the build system with desired configuration.

# Supported IDEs:
Eclipse CDT based with gcc
* [System Workbench for STM32](https://www.openstm32.org/HomePage) aka Ac6 SW4STM32
* [STM32CubeIDE](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubeide.html)

Projects would create directly if source cmake project uses gcc, and IDE also uses gcc.

# Potential IDEs to support:
* [Eclipse Embedded CDT](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/iot.embed-cdt/downloads)
* Texas Instruments [Code Composer Studio (CCS)](https://www.ti.com/tool/CCSTUDIO)
* NXP [MCUXpresso](https://www.nxp.com/design/software/development-software/mcuxpresso-software-and-tools-/mcuxpresso-integrated-development-environment-ide:MCUXpresso-IDE)
* Renesas [e2 studio](https://www.renesas.com/us/en/products/software-tools/tools/ide/e2studio.html)
* Nuvoton [NuEclipse](https://www.nuvoton.com/tool-and-software/software-development-tool/driver)
* SiLabs [Simplicity Studio](https://www.silabs.com/products/development-tools/software/simplicity-studio)
* more?  Cypress, Maxim, Nordic, Toshiba, etc.

non-eclipse based:
* ARM [Keil µVision](http://www2.keil.com/mdk5/uvision/)
* IAR [Embedded Workbench](https://www.iar.com/iar-embedded-workbench/)
* Microchip [MPLAB X IDE](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide) netbeans based
* [Segger Embedded Studio](https://www.segger.com/products/development-tools/embedded-studio) (only for Nordic?)
* more?


# compiling from source
## building on Linux
on distributions using apt package management:
``sudo apt install libxml2-dev libjson-c-dev``
or equivalent packages for your Linux distribution
* `` mkdir build``
* `` cd build``
* `` cmake ..``
* `` make``

## building on Windows
tested using http://mingw-w64.org/doku.php/download/win-builds
because it includes json-c and libxml2 libraries already. 

ensure winbuilds bin directory is in your PATH, in this example c:/winbuilds

* ``mkdir build``
* ``cd build``
* ``cmake -G "MinGW Makefiles" .. -DLIBXML2_LIBRARY=c:/winbuilds/lib64/libxml2.dll.a``
* ``gmake``

if compiling is slow on windows, exclude build directory from anti-malware https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4028485/windows-10-add-an-exclusion-to-windows-security

## Testing & Verification
IDEs generally don't test project files.  If the project files are incorrect, they will either crash, or will not recognize as valid project, or otherwise function incorrectly.  When building from source ``<ide>-test``utilities will be built, but not installed.  The purpose of these utilities is not to check if the cmake project was converted correctly, but instead validates the generated project files will load into the IDE without error.

This test utility loads project files in CWD, and is intended to read any project file for that IDE, whether the project was generated by the IDE itself, or from elsewhere.

## Translation of board and MCU names
(#trans)
IDEs from MCU vendors might require MCU names to be defined (spelled) correctly in order to function properly.  Some cmake projects may not define ``BOARD``with spelling correct, or MCU part number is not defined precisely ether.


Internal board table is provided for some boards, but other hardware will always exist, and new board could come out tomorrow.  When the file `` translate_board_mcu.json`` is present in the build directory when running this generator, then this json board table will override the internal table.

Commit message:

add TI-CCS generator and xml compare tester

readme.md, after:

# generate IDE projects with cmake

## usage
1. create build directory as you normally would
2. run ``query-cmake`` 
3. run cmake as you normally would
4. run ``<ide>-parse-reply``
5. from your IDE, import project from this build directory.

## whats going on here
cmake provides [cmake-file-api](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-file-api.7.html), in which cmake generates json, which then can be read to generate IDE project files.

First ``query-cmake`` creates two files in build directory, which tells cmake to generate json.  Then, after cmake is run, ``<ide>-parse-reply`` reads this json and outputs project files for that IDE.

# CMAKE project requirements
Project must have preprocessor definition of ``BOARD``specifying the hardware used.  The correct MCU part number is then found from this board name.   See [translation of board names](#trans)

# Why use IDE?
These IDEs package together compiler and debugger working together in single development environment, relieving the developer from having to individually install each of these, and then set them up.  Additionally, some IDEs are supported directly by microcontroller vendor.

## Why CMAKE for embedded projects?
Too many combinations of hardware variations: target MCU, board type, add-on board type, software options.  Results in infinite number of projects.  Instead, just let cmake create the build system with desired configuration.

# Supported IDEs:
Eclipse CDT based with gcc
* [System Workbench for STM32](https://www.openstm32.org/HomePage) aka Ac6 SW4STM32
* [STM32CubeIDE](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubeide.html)

Projects would create directly if source cmake project uses gcc, and IDE also uses gcc.

# Potential IDEs to support:
* [Eclipse Embedded CDT](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/iot.embed-cdt/downloads)
* Texas Instruments [Code Composer Studio (CCS)](https://www.ti.com/tool/CCSTUDIO)
* NXP [MCUXpresso](https://www.nxp.com/design/software/development-software/mcuxpresso-software-and-tools-/mcuxpresso-integrated-development-environment-ide:MCUXpresso-IDE)
* Renesas [e2 studio](https://www.renesas.com/us/en/products/software-tools/tools/ide/e2studio.html)
* Nuvoton [NuEclipse](https://www.nuvoton.com/tool-and-software/software-development-tool/driver)
* SiLabs [Simplicity Studio](https://www.silabs.com/products/development-tools/software/simplicity-studio)
* more?  Cypress, Maxim, Nordic, Toshiba, etc.

non-eclipse based:
* ARM [Keil µVision](http://www2.keil.com/mdk5/uvision/)
* IAR [Embedded Workbench](https://www.iar.com/iar-embedded-workbench/)
* Microchip [MPLAB X IDE](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide) netbeans based
* [Segger Embedded Studio](https://www.segger.com/products/development-tools/embedded-studio) (only for Nordic?)
* more?


# compiling from source
## building on Linux
on distributions using apt package management:
``sudo apt install libxml2-dev libjson-c-dev``
or equivalent packages for your Linux distribution
* `` mkdir build``
* `` cd build``
* `` cmake ..``
* `` make``

## building on Windows
tested using http://mingw-w64.org/doku.php/download/win-builds
because it includes json-c and libxml2 libraries already. 

ensure winbuilds bin directory is in your PATH, in this example c:/winbuilds

* ``mkdir build``
* ``cd build``
* ``cmake -G "MinGW Makefiles" .. -DLIBXML2_LIBRARY=c:/winbuilds/lib64/libxml2.dll.a``
* ``gmake``

if compiling is slow on windows, exclude build directory from anti-malware https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4028485/windows-10-add-an-exclusion-to-windows-security

## Testing & Verification
IDEs generally don't test project files.  If the project files are incorrect, they will either crash, or will not recognize as valid project, or otherwise function incorrectly.  When building from source ``<ide>-test``utilities will be built, but not installed.  The purpose of these utilities is not to check if the cmake project was converted correctly, but instead validates the generated project files will load into the IDE without error.

This test utility loads project files in CWD, and is intended to read any project file for that IDE, whether the project was generated by the IDE itself, or from elsewhere.

### XML compare for CDT-eclipse
Test utility ``cdt-xml-compare`` permits testing via comparing a control reference file against another file.``cdt-xml-compare`` compares ``.cproject`` files and ``.project`` files.  The intent is to find errors in eclipse XML files which would prevent them from being recognized as valid project by IDE.  When project file has error, typically the IDE will only say it cant read it, or just crash rather than give the actual problem.  This compare utility is intented to show where the difference is between a project file created by an IDE (control file), vs. a file created by something else (file unter test).  Often the file under test will have elements which do not exist in control file; they are printed out in the end of test. ``cdt-xml-compare`` is built, but not installed.

## Translation of board and MCU names
(#trans)
IDEs from MCU vendors might require MCU names to be defined (spelled) correctly in order to function properly.  Some cmake projects may not define ``BOARD``with spelling correct, or MCU part number is not defined precisely ether.


Internal board table is provided for some boards, but other hardware will always exist, and new board could come out tomorrow.  When the file `` translate_board_mcu.json`` is present in the build directory when running this generator, then this json board table will override the internal table.
